CSS `repeat()` function: page rewrite (#44601)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/values/repeat/index.md

short-title: repeat()
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Values/repeat
page-type: css-function
browser-compat:
  - css.properties.grid-template-columns.repeat
  - css.properties.row-rule.repeat
sidebar: cssref
---

> The **`repeat()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/Functions) represents a repeated fragment of the [track list](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout/Basic_concepts) or [rule-line list]. It allows repeated patterns of columns, rows, and their gap decorations, to be written in a compact form.

Reviewer: `[rule-line list]` - should it be a link?

> The **`repeat()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/Functions) represents a repeated fragment of the [track list](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout/Basic_concepts) or [rule-line list], allowing a large number of columns and rows, and their gap decorations, that exhibit a recurring pattern to be written in a more compact form.

Reviewer: If it were me, short choppy sentences. This might not be right, but something to consider.
```suggestion
The **`repeat()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/Functions) represents a repeated fragment of the [track list](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout/Basic_concepts) or [rule-line list]. It allows repeated patterns of columns, rows, and their gap decorations, to be written in a compact form.
```

repeat(4, [col-start] minmax(100px, 1fr) [col-end])
repeat(4, [col-start] fit-content(200px) [col-end])
repeat(4, 10px [col-start] 30% [col-middle] 400px [col-end])

/* <name-repeat> values */
repeat(5, [footer])
repeat(auto-fill, [header])
repeat(2, [header footer])

/* <repeat-line> */
repeat(4, dashed)
repeat(2, solid, dotted, inset)
repeat(3, medium)
repeat(4, red)
repeat(3, green medium outset)

/* <auto-repeat-line> */
repeat(auto, dotted)
repeat(auto, 10px)
repeat(auto, currentcolor)
repeat(auto, red, blue, green)
repeat(auto, var(--lineColor) var(--lineSize) solid)
```

### Values

> The `repeat()` function takes two arguments: The first argument specifies [**repeat count**](#repeat-count-values), and the second specifies the [**repeated values list**](#repeated-values-list), the list of values to be repeated.

Reviewer: This is awkward to read. I'd have just had "the list of values to be repeated" as the link, but I assume that you want to link to a named heading.

```suggestion
The `repeat()` function takes two arguments: The first argument specifies [**repeat count**](#repeat-count-values), and the second specifies the [**repeated values list**](#repeated-values-list) (the list of values to be repeated).
```

#### Repeat count values

- {{cssxref("integer")}}

>   - : An positive integer greater than or equal to `1` specifying the number of times the second parameter feature list will be repeated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : An positive integer greater than or equal to `1` specifying the number of times the feature list in the second parameter will be repeated.
```

  - : The integer or `auto-fill` keyword sets the repeat count
  - : The `<line-names>` are one or more space-separated {{cssxref("&lt;custom-ident&gt;")}} values enclosed in square brackets.
  - : These line names (rather than track sizes) are relevant for [`subgrid`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Grid_layout/Subgrid).
    .
- `<repeat-value-type>` = `repeat( <integer> , <value># )`
  - : The `<integer>` sets the repeat count.
  - : The `<value>` is one or more comma-separated valid values for the property on which the `repeat() function is applied.
  - : Multiple `repeat()` functions of the `<repeat-value-type>` may be used within a single value declaration.

- `<auto-repeat-value-type>` = `repeat( auto , <value># )`
  - : The `auto` keyword specifies an auto repeater. An auto repeater will be used to fill in values for gaps that would not otherwise receive values from other parts of the list.
  - : The `<value>` is one or more comma-separated valid values for the property on which the `repeat() function is applied.
  - : At most one `repeat()` in a given list of values may be an auto repeater.

### Auto-fit versus auto-fill

> When the repeat count first parameter of the `repeat()` function is a keyword, either `auto-fill`, `auto-fit`, or `auto`, rather than an integer, it creates an auto-repeater. An auto-repeating `repeat()` function repeats the values provided as the second parameter as many times as necessary to completely fill

Reviewer: Dangling sentence

Reviewer 2: Yes indeed

Reviewer: Also, I find this whole section confusing. However I don't think it's so much the text as my lack of familiarity with grids layouts - for example, I don't get why auto-fit has any empty tracks. 

It might not be solvable here - but you could consider showing an example of the differences to make this visual.

Author: i am not a grid expert, but i assume it can be because it can auto place most items, but then you can place an item in row 20 column 20, and then you'll have 400 cells . This content was moved out of values into description.
